The Math-to-Industry Boot Camp is an intense six-week summer program designed to provide graduate students with training and experience that is valuable for employment outside of academia. The program is targeted at Ph.D. students in pure and applied mathematics.

I participated in the IMA Math to Industry Bootcamp hosted through the University of Minnesota. The first three weeks of the bootcamp were devoted to developing hard skills related to programming. We began with a crash course into Statistics and Data Science using R Studio hosted by Alicia Johnson and David Shuman. This was followed by Programming in Python and Machine Learning hosted by Daniel Spirn and Thomas Hoft. The final session was an introduction into Stochastic Modeling and Optimization hosted by Sherwin Doroudi and Alex Estes. Each of the sessions ran in a similar format, where we would go through a lecture in the morning and the afternoon, and in the evenings we were given homework assignments and group projects, that were presented to the entire cohort, to further progress our skills. An example of these group projects is from the python section of the skills sessions in which myself with two other members in which we used the open source data set from Stanford Open Policing to exploring the stereotypes associated to difference in ability of driving in connection with the gender of the driver. To do this we collected and cleaned data from 3 different states, and then used python tools to analyze the number of citations and warnings in comparison to the gender of the driver. 

After the first three weeks of training we were then assigned to teams that were associated with an outside company. The group that I was a part of worked with U.S. Bank under the supervision of Chris Jones. The goal of our project was to try and formulate a model to predict turnover of mortgages. Our team focused on two methods of investigating turnover, what was considered a top-down approach and a bottom-up approach. The top-down approach focused on looking at the macroeconomic factors that influence mortgage turnover. The bottom-up approach involved considering factors such as credit score, mortgage rate, and loan to value (which is a metric that measures the difference between the current loan amount and the value of the loan). ]The report that was submitted to the IMA at the end of the program is included below.


[IMA_US_Bank_Project.pdf](https://github.com/kat29799/IMA_Capstone_Project_USBank_2022/files/12732585/IMA_US_Bank_Project.pdf)
